# Expression Evaluation

This project is solely written in Java. Please run it using Java 8.

## Overview

This project was an assignment given to Rutgers CS112 Data Structures students in the Fall of 2014. 
It was redone in September 2021 with no recollection
of how the project was initially completed. The focus of this project is to evaluate algebraic/numeric/algebraic-numeric 
expressions that have variables and/or constants of integer value. The expressions were to be solved using Stacks and Recursion.

## Code & Test Cases

The code written can be found in the [src](https://github.com/urvishp13/Expression-Evaluation/tree/main/src) folder. Look for the 
`@author Urvish Patel` tag before Classes to see the code I have written.
The code was tested using self-generated test cases that can be found in [this](https://github.com/urvishp13/Expression-Evaluation/blob/main/docs/testcases.md) 
file. Expressions are generated by the person
executing the program when prompted in the (eg. terminal). When creating expressions, only use variables 
that are in the text file that contains the values for all your variables--this text file is basically like a database; 
if variables other than the ones listed are used, you will
get an evaluation but it will be incorrect (just a note if you're trying to test an edge case). If you want to create your own database 
with variables and values of your choice, simply create a text file and follow the the instructions on 
how to format the content under the "Running the evaluator" section in [problem_specs](https://github.com/urvishp13/Expression-Evaluation/blob/main/docs/problem_specs.pdf) 
file. The files for the databases I used are in the [data](https://github.com/urvishp13/Expression-Evaluation/tree/main/data) folder. 

## How to Test

To test the program, access the contents of this repository as appropriate for you and follow the instructions presented to you in the 
(eg. command line, console in Eclipse, etc.). 

If running the program using the command line, go into the `bin` 
folder of this repo and type `java apps.Evaluator`--as the .class files are already there.

To access the database files (.txt files) when running the program, you will have to backout/follow-directory-paths until you are 
in the directory of that file (eg. in the command line, you'll have to use `../data/<file_name>.txt`; in Eclipse, you'll have to use 
`data/<file_name>.txt`, etc.).

### Input Restrictions

`KEY POINT #1`: There may be any number of spaces or tabs BETWEEN ANY PAIR of tokens in the expression. Tokens are variable names, constants, 
parentheses, square brackets, and operators.

`KEY POINT #2`: In the file to load values from, don't have a scalar and an array have the same name (eg.
don't have a scalar named "a" and an array named "a"). Doing so will throw the loadSymbolValues() into confusion.

`KEY POINT #3`: The minus sign in the expression is constricted to subtraction only; it cannot be used to change the 
sign of a variable or integer i.e. it cannot change the value from positive (or negative) to negative (or positive).
Example: -1 and -a is invalid but 2-1 and a-1 is valid.

`KEY POINT #4`: For arrays, there cannot be a space between the array name and its opening square bracket.